In this section we're going to talk about CI/CD tools that you can choose from.
Plenty of tools exist that can handle the entire CI and CD pipeline.
Some tools can be installed on your own hardware,
while others are cloud-based services.
Your team may prefer a CI/CD server running on-premises closer to the development team.
There are a lot of great options with varying pricing models.
One major benefit to an on-prem CI/CD server is
a high degree of control over security or configuration.
On the other hand, an on-prem CI/CD server
requires time from somebody in the team to maintain.
Jenkins is a great example,
it's an open source,
full-featured CI/CD server built by a vibrant community of developers.
Jenkins is also 100 percent free.
There's also GitLab CI/CD, the community edition.
GitLab CI/CD is also an open source,
full-featured CI/CD server that is built by a large community of developers.
GitLab also has many other useful features
like built-in git repositories and project management features.
The installable community version is 100 percent free,
but they also offer a paid option with hosting.
TeamCity is a great example.
It was built by JetBrains and was the first CI/CD server I ever used.
TeamCity is a mature product with about every feature you could ever dream of.
Plus, JetBrains offers enterprise support for TeamCity.
There's also Team Foundation Server from Microsoft.
This is another very mature system that includes CI/CD,
but also other version control and project management solutions.
It also has a very tight integration with Visual Studio,
which might come in handy for some.
Some prefer to use cloud-based services since
they require much less time to maintain and configure.
One downside to cloud-based solutions like
this is that they are almost never completely free,
at least not when you're using it for a real team development situation.
However, if you do the math,
you might find that the cost for a cloud-based CI/CD server is
less than the labor and hardware costs of an on-prem solution.
Let's take a look at a few of the leaders in this space.
Bamboo is a CI/CD server offered by Atlassian.
It integrates well with other Atlassian products,
so it might be a good option if you use Jira or Bitbucket.
Travis CI is an extremely simple CI/CD orchestration tool
that has some special features for library and package builders.
Travis CI is completely free for open source projects.
I'll mention GitLab again here.
In addition to their open source version,
they also have a fully managed cloud-based option that can be quite convenient.
CircleCI has a reputation for being one of the fastest cloud-based CI/CD servers around.
We'll use this option during this course.
All of these have free versions,
but with certain limitations.
Again, you'll have to weigh the pros and cons with
each option to find the CI/CD server that works best for you and your team.